# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report

---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

My pipeline consisted of 6 steps.

1. Converted the images to grayscale.
2. Use Gaussian filter to smooth the image in order to remove noice.
3. Use Canny Edge Detection to detect potential line pixels.
4. Use a manually picked quadrilateral as region of interest mask.
5. Use Hough Transform to detect lines.
6. Draw the lines onto initial image.

In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the draw_lines() function by the following steps:

1. Split line segments generated by Hough Transform, into two parts: left_line_segs and right_line_segs, based on slope and position.
2. For each part, remove line segments which have abnormal slope (value too far away from median of all slopes).
3. Fit a straight line for left line segments in each part. In more detail, I use two endpoints of each line segments as sample points and fit a line for all the sample points.
4. Compute two endpoints for left line and right line.


### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

My pipeline is not robust and cannot generate acceptable result for challenge.mp4. Possible reasons:

1. In some part in challenge.mp4, there's no tree shadow on the road and the sunlight is strong. As a result, the left yellow line looks not very clear. My Canny Edge Detection cannot work in these image frames because the low_threshold is relatively too high.
2. When fitting a line for all line segments, I only consider two endpoints of each line segment. I should also take line length into consideration, so that the fitted result won't be affected by short abnormal line segments.


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

Some possible improvements:

1. Before converting to grayscale image, first use color selection to remove all colors except white and yellow. (But it would introduce more thresholds, white color range and yellow color range, we need to tune.)
2. Have better algorithm to merge line segments.

### 4. Other thoughts

I feel like the parameter tuning is really tricky, and the working parameters for one case may not be applicable to other cases. I'm wondering in reality what we should do to tackle this problem.

